Windows 10 Clean Installation.
The perspective here is kind of funny in a way.
If you've been in IT for a long time like I have,
then this screen should bring back some nostalgia and probably some pain.
Back in the 90s when Windows NT server and Windows NT Workstation were the
business versions of Windows at that time and Windows 95,
Windows 98 were the consumer versions,
in order to install those operating systems,
you normally had one to three floppy disks.
Anybody remember those?
And this was because it wasn't assumed that everybody had a
current generation optical drive or CD drive at that time or DVD
drive a bit later on their computer.
So you would start the computer using old school floppies,
and those floppies don't hold much data so you had a text-based interface
like you see here where you use the keyboard to navigate.
It bootstraps the operating system,
it gives you the opportunity to load some device
drivers maybe for your CD drive, maybe for your hard disk.
At that time there was far less standardization with hardware.
It's good that we don't have to do that nowadays.
The installation of Windows 10 is just crazy easy how streamlined it is.
Now how does this installation work in the real world.
Most consumers I dare say never have to do an installation
or a reinstallation because their OEM,
their original equipment manufacturer has already
done the installation for them, and when you pick up your PC,
it's pretty much ready to go out of the box.
In the business world though,
Operating System Deployment or OSD is a pretty big deal because you need
to deploy sometimes like I said on mass a lot of desktops and you want
that centralized control and standardization.
Normally,
these business installations of Windows are certainly not
using a DVD disk and putting it physically in any computer
or even using a USB drive.
You can, in fact, install Windows 10 from a USB.
There is a Media Creator tool that Microsoft makes freely available.
Check the exercise files if you're interested in that.
But in business,
we're doing this over the network over our high
speed ethernet local area network, or LAN.
This gives us scale and consistency, and then as far as features,
Microsoft features,
there is a huge thriving third-party space in operating system deployment,
but Windows deployment services is built into Windows Server,
that's one way to go.
Microsoft Deployment Toolkit kind of puts WDS on steroids,
it gives you a heck of a lot more capabilities,
that's also a free download.
What's not free are the System Center tools,
this is a whole suite of server utilities that Microsoft makes.
System Center Configuration Manager, or SCCM,
allows you to do a fully automated hands-off operating system
deployments where by the time the user logs onto their system,
it's already standardized for all of your network security policies,
it's already potentially updated with patches and it's got firewall and
all of the line of business apps all ready to go. That's how business is done nowadays and installing Windows in the real world.